Write docs platform requirements for the new extensions (#9133)
dotnet/csharplang: meetings/working-groups/extensions/Extension-API-docs.md

- The prototype only includes the `static` modifier if it would be present in source, as in an operator declaration:
  ```csharp
  extension<T>(IEnumerable<T> source)
  {
      public static IEnumerable<T> operator + (IEnumerable<T> left, IEnumerable<T> right);
  }
  ```

### Extension members in the extended type's page

The API docs build system generates the section on the type page for the extended type that lists all extension members. This section should have sub-sections for *extension methods*, *extension properties*, and *extension operators*. Extension indexers should follow the format for indexers, and be listed as an `Item[]` property. There isn't a `this` modifier on the first parameter. In fact, the receiver is declared on the extension, not the member. The prototypes in this section should expand to show the `extension` container, as follows:

- The prototypes are displayed as described in the previous section.
- Otherwise, the format is consistent with the current format:
  - Each overload has a separate entry in the section.

>   - The signatures indicate if the method is a specialization (`Sum(this IEnumerable<int>)`) or generic (`Where<T>(this IEnumerable<T> source, Func<T, bool> predicate)`).

Reviewer: The signatures here are of classic extension methods, should they be changed to new extension members?
```suggestion
  - The signatures indicate if the method is a specialization (`extension(IEnumerable<int> source) { ... }`) or generic (`extension<T>(IEnumerable<T> source) { ... }`).
```

  - The section lists all extensions, from all extending types. They are sorted alphabetically, as proposed for current extension methods.
  - The signature does not show any indication of the extending type.

### Extension class page

The page for the class containing extensions will need only minimal updates in how extension members are displayed.

> - The TOC node for the class will have additional nodes for **Properties** (including indexers), and **operators**. Classes already support this, so it should already work. Note that the node for methods displays *method groups*, not *individual overloads*. That should remain.

Reviewer 2: Enumerable defines at least one non-extension *method*: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.linq.enumerable.repeat?view=net-9.0

- The page should also have sections for **Properties**, and **operators**.
- The prototypes for extensions should be displayed as shown [above](#extension-member-prototypes).

> ### Extension member page

Reviewer: This will display the static class where the extension is declared, right? That's the type name needed for disambiguation. Will it be displayed somewhere else as well?

There should be a new style for extension members. This should be modeled after the existing member template, with the following changes:

- The receiver type should be shown in the title and the header block.

> - The receiver parameter should have its own block. It should precede the other parameter block.

Author: updated.

- The prototype for the member should follow the format shown [above](#extension-member-prototypes).

> The emphasis on the receiver parameter reinforces the new syntax, and is necessary for disambiguation when multiple extensions declare methods with similar signatures.

Author: Right. Copy / paste error. I meant that showing the receiver helps the reader know what type is being extended.

### Unspeakable extension type

The compiler generates a nested type with an unspeakable name, and an unspeakable member, for each extension container. See the example under [implementation](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/blob/main/proposals/extensions.md#implementations) in the feature spec.

The unspeakable nested type requires the following behavior:

- The unspeakable type, for example `<>E__1<T>`, should not be displayed in the API docs.
- The unspeakable member, for example `public static <Extension>$(IEnumerable<T> source)` should not be displayed in the API docs. However, the single parameter for this method defines the receiver type and name for all extensions in this container.
- The public members of the unspeakable nested class provides the prototypes for all extensions. Those are important in the docs.

### XML comments on the receiver parameter

> Developers use the `<param>` and (optionally) `<typeparam>` tags on the `extension` container to provide information about the receiver type.

Reviewer 3: Does putting this on the extension container force changes to XML comments syntax? It looks weird to me to have a parameter on a type, but something similar has to happen here. I wonder if I would rather see a new element type like <receiverparam> than have an element that doesn't make sense on a class show up in IntelliSense for all classes.

You already point out that the output needs to respect this.

  - The signatures indicate if the method is a specialization (`Sum(this IEnumerable<int>)`) or generic (`Where<T>(this IEnumerable<T> source, Func<T, bool> predicate)`).
  - The section lists all extensions, from all extending types. They are grouped by type, then sorted alphabetically. **We would like this to change, and have the extension methods sorted alphabetically, without regard to the containing class.**
  - The signature does not show any indication of the extending type.
  - The docs pipeline generates this section on the extended type from the descriptions of the extension methods. The `///` comments on the extended type (for example, `System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable<T>`) doesn't need to include all extension methods in the entire library.

In source, the existing `///` elements on the extending type and the extension method declarations enable this presentation.

## Docs presentation for C# 14 extension members

The presentation for C# 14 extensions needs to account for several new types of extension members:

- Extension methods (new, instance or static)
- Extension properties (instance or static)
- Extension indexers.
- Extension operators.

> - Extension members whose receiver is a *type* rather than an *instance of a type*. In other words, extension members that are meant to accessed as though they are static members of the extended type. These can include methods, properties, and indexers.

Author: ```suggestion
```
